:date: 2017-03-29

=========================
Wednesday, March 29, 2017
=========================

After not being able to build the docs I decided to work on my dev-env script.
The goal of the script is to make a working development environment from scratch including the virtualenv.

I've added it to lino's bash script dir.

It doesn't add anything to the users .bashrc or .profile.
Ideally I would like it to tell the user to add an include statment to their bashrc or atleir, but if the user has
several projects this isn't ideal. For not this works. One other possible solution is to just echo some lines that could be added.

The reason for this was test an error I was having when building docs :ticket:`1623`

This also fixed an issue I was having where at the start of every lino-server it printed some info including hte pid of the python process.


Sphinx
======

Worked on getting the docs building.
Main issues were a missing dependencys and a missing index for noi outlined in :ticket:`1641`
There were also problems building for presto and avanti, but these I'm not going to worry about for now.

I would like to next test the build script against a clean install of debian, but that's not important.


Calender Server
===============

Progress with designing the Calender server for lino.
I believe that the best way is to have a scheduled method for exporting each users calender as an icalender that Radicale
reads and serves to users in read-only mode.

For auth it's a bit tricky.

Either we need to use a https post to validate or have a Htpasswd file, or extend radicale with a custom Auth method.

Mailbox
=======

Not much progress here.

There some ideas of what problems there are and some ideas of how to fix them, but as if yet I haven't tackled them.

Firstly I need to update the detail-layouts for messages for better reviewing.

Also need to setup a cron-job for spam learning as well as putting a header condition into the server.
Right now there's several spam messages in the DB.

I wonder if it's possible to have an action button in the messages table for inserting a new pointer...

I'll focus on this as much as I can tomorrow so I have something to talk to luc about other than sphinx and calenders.
