:date: 2017-04-03

=====================
Monday, April 3, 2017
=====================

Mailbox@jane
============
Did a HO with luc where we discussed where I was with mailbox and maildev.
Mailbox for jane is working in a way, however the extension of a django application has some issues that are above my
skill level. Mainly that it's impossible to inject new fields and actions into a django model since the function django2lino
is run too late in the startup of a lino server.
I was able to hack it in a way by modifying the source of django_mailbox to have the models inhertit from lino rather than django.
With that hack I was able to add a new bool field, but not a new foreign key. Luc wishes to modify lino to make it possible to inject the new field.
I agree, and pass the job onto luc.

Getting a hacked version of django_radicale also got to a half-way point, where the server started inside of lino.
But it was not able to run properly, with put requests hanging and timing out.

I wonder if perhaps we ought to just write a auth and storage module for radicale and not have it run inside of lino.
Just have a new-view for it. But ideally it would be best for it to work.

After fighting with these tasks for a few days I'm glad to move onto something else.

Mailman
=======
:ticket:`1598` becomes a problem again as the web-interface isn't allowing the admin to remove held messages.

Previously I was able to just remove the offending mail manually, but this time I must fix the cause of the reason.

Seems the issue was caused by switching to ssl. The admin page was configured to send the POST to http not https,
resulting in the data being lost.

Solution can be found in the ticket.

git-kraken
==========
During our hangout :ticket:`1667` was created, where we want to find out if we are actually able to use git-kraken or not.
Their website it can be used for open-source projects for free, but if you are using it commercially it must be pro.

We are writing open-source but are getting paid to do so, so are we able to or not.

dtgraph
=======
After trying again to get dtraph working on lbox I find that it is impossible to have it work with php7, and we do
not want to have the server downgrated to php5.2

We shall instead ditching it and feeding the data from the one-wires to emoncms useing ajax requests or something.

Found info for installing emoncms and forwarded it to Erik. Once he conferms that that is what he wants I'll go ahead and
install it. I think it'll be best to just write a quick python script for logging the data rather than using the php one.

Emoncms
=======

Using `this <https://github.com/emoncms/emoncms/blob/master/docs/LinuxInstall.md>`_ guide I'm going to try to install emoncs again
Installed OK.
Wrote a quick script using requests and systemcall to send the temp data.
