:date: 2017-04-19

=========================
Wednesday, April 19, 2017
=========================


Mysql in Python with peewee
===========================

Yesterday my old friend Eric from the states called me and asked if I had any experience with mysql in python.
Mostly I've played with MongoDB and sqlite, and sql much less.

What he's doing is making a web-app for monitoring temperature sensors, he is not using a full stack framework,
and currently doesn't have a backend framework.

All he needs a basic python API that will iterate through the one to many relationships.

user <- farm -< zone -< device <- sensor <- readings.

As well as a way to insert data into the DB, he doesn't know what form the data will come in as, either several readings
at once, or one at a time.

I decided I'd help a little for my own sake as well as his and see what's the simplest way to do this.

I found the python package peewee which is a lightweight alternative of SqlAlchemy.

After playing around with it, making some models and creating some dummy data, I find myself preferring django/lino,
at least in the way of model definitions.

pass
====

Since I installed mysql on my PC and added a root account, and since I always forget my mysql passwords in the past I
decided to get `Pass <https://www.passwordstore.org/>`__ up and running, which was more confusing then I expected since
the manual didn't cover well what needs to be done with gpg in order to encrypt your passwords.::

    gpg --gen-key
    gpg2 --import ~/.gnupg/secring.gpg
    pass init [key ID]

    pass generate pluto/mysql/root
        181712319528-
    pass insert tonis/lino/
    pass tonis/lino/

Annoyingly it doesn't stated which gpg it used either. But anyway, now I have a password manager.
Luc and I might want at some point to get it working with git and have a shared password store, however that's not an
important issue.

Fashion show
============

I also modeled at TTK's student fashion show.
Walking the cat-walk is quite the experience. I didn't have the greatest posture in the end, but none the less it was fun.
Got some candy for my trouble as well.
