:date: 2019-01-01

========================
Tuesday, January 1, 2019
========================

New years!

Spent it at Karina and Martins. sauna and cozy living.

Last year had been intereating. 
Got married, watched and helped Nora grow.
Shes really become a little person complete with her own perks.

Made some resolutions this year.

Resoutions
==========

In no partular oder

Eat less meat
-------------

Siiri has been a non meat eater for as long as ive known her.
The idea of eating no meat is not scary any more.

I hope it makes me cook more good food for the Fam.
Baked paprika and suvi korvits and quinwa!


Blog more
---------

I enjoy writing in my notebook but havent done it in a while.
I think I should try to do it more online. Document some of the interesting provlems that I've solved for Lino. or jusy some bits and bobs.

Hell also could do some photo blogging. efforts into uaing a dslr to acan for example. 

Being more ative on Stack Overflow has been fun, why not more online creatice  activy.

figure out what i want from my blog.
------------------------------------

I habe this blog. however the format is an iffy one.
Rest is a great format. And allows me to store the posts in a good way that can be searched easy.

however there are skme drawbacks. need to look and see what i eant drom my website.

i would like to style it myself as an excersise in css / sass

Be more goal oriented.
----------------------

todo lists work for me fairly well when i use them to break down a problem.  Latest exanple being linoReact.

Model train set
===============

Siiri got from ikea a small wooden trainset. it consists of 12 30deg track 2 strate tracks and 2 strate tracks which change the z level.
also 3 trains, two engines amd a cargo car. along with a tunnel / bridle suporte.

Its a fun toy. works well with the mega blocks to create intereaing landscapes.

however it feels like it needs some more tracks.

Also it would ne wicked cool to create a battery powered train that will just go around.

Double points for using a ir or rf controller to controll its direction.

Blutooth on Ubuntu.
===================

Got a cute little ThinkPad bluetooth mouse from Erik along with a small bluetooth adapter.
First time using a bluetooth device on Pluto.

Had to install blueman along with some other tools.

`sudo apt-get install blueman bluetooth bluez bluez-tools rfkill`

Now it works nicly using the gui provided by blueman.

I hope the AnnePro2 will also work nicely.

Blog Hosting
============

Decided not to host my blog on saffe-rumma, but on lbox.

I think tonis.piip.org is a good url for it.

In the future if I want to get a new domain I can always get tonispiip.org/com.

VPN issues
==========

Trying to create an alias for starting my vpn to oru and start a ssh session.

``sudo openvpn tonis_mercury.conf 2>/dev/null 1>&2 && ssh 192.168.73.1``

However there are being some complications. It times out on the ssh.
Clearly something is wrong, and even if I do the usual operations of not having them in the alias it's hanging, and last connection my session freezed and I had to exit it using ``[ret]\`.``

Seems that the issue is from having backround instances of openvpn running and it now being able to set the correct routes.

Due to having to use ttl to input my su pasword and the fuss that's created from that by having the whole command be a one liner, dicded to go with with two seperate commands. ``oru`` to start the openvpn, then ``lbox`` for ssh, in the usual pattern.





